---
title: 2.2.6.2.1 Introduction
sidebar_label: 2.2.6.2.1 Introduction
---
The Core wrappers allow you to call Glasswall Editor core APIs from your chosen language. Wrappers are provided for Python, C#, JavaScript and Java.

Each wrapper consists of:

- The wrapper itself: a bridge between the Glasswall Editor and the desired language;

- A series of supporting files (language dependent).

Note that specific wrappers are provided for Security Tagging functionality. See [**Security Tagging Wrappers**](https://docs.glasswallsolutions.com/sdk/editor/Content/Wrappers/Security%20Tagging%20Wrappers.htm).

## General Requirements

The following general requirements must be met to use the wrappers and their test apps:

- The Glasswall Core 2 libraries and their dependencies

  - glasswall\_core2.dll

  - \*\_camera.dll

- A designated folder containing files to be input into Core 2

- A designated folder to hold the output from Core 2

- A policy file to modify the default Core 2 file processing behaviour

- The wrapper itself.

## Test Application Overview

Each wrapper is provided with a test application. This application is designed to call each of the Glasswall Editor APIs from the chosen language, and generate a log file of the results.

The execution steps are:

- All supporting files, folders and dependencies are checked

- The contents of the output directory are erased in preparation for file processing

- For each file in the input directory:

  - A new folder is created in the output directory and is named for the file currently being processed

  - A series of 23 tests are performed, as detailed in the Wrapper Test Calls document

  - The files generated by Glasswall are saved in the specified output directory

  - A log file detailing the result of each test is generated and saved as local\_process\_log.txt

- When all files have been processed, a final log file named process\_log.txt is saved in the root of the output directory.